BNY Mellon, a global leader in investment management and investment services, has been named “Best Global Corporate Trust Services Provider” for 2017 by Global Finance magazine for the second year in a row.

BNY Mellon’s Corporate Trust Group was recognized for the prestigious award as a result of its market-leading position in several categories including customer relations, quality of service, smooth handling of exception items, technology platforms, post-settlement operations and knowledge of local regulations and practices.

“Our size, scale and global scope of expertise uniquely positions us to deliver meaningful solutions and access to resources that our clients want,” said Frank La Salla, chief executive officer of the Corporate Trust group. “It is an honor to be recognized for this award that reinforces our longstanding commitment to empowering clients with the right tools and technology to succeed.”

In announcing the 2017 winners in various financial services categories, Joseph D. Giarraputo, publisher and editorial director of Global Finance said, “Global investors need to work with firms that are the safest and have the most in-depth knowledge of local markets and regulatory regimes. We recognize those providers that do the best job of meeting their clients’ needs in increasingly complex global markets.”

Overall, BNY Mellon took home four first place honors from Global Finance magazine’s annual award program. In addition to “Best Global Corporate Trust Provider,” the company was honored as “Best Global Securities Lender,” “Best Global Bank for Depositary Receipts,” and “Best Securities Lender.”

BNY Mellon is the premier provider of corporate trust services to the debt capital markets, providing customized and market-driven solutions to investors, bondholders and lenders. As of March 31, 2017, BNY Mellon Corporate Trust served as trustee and/or paying agent on more than 55,000 debt-related issues globally. The corporate trust business utilizes its global footprint and expertise to deliver a full range of issuer and related investor services including trustee, paying agency, fiduciary, escrow, and other financial services. The business administers a wide array of assets and types of programs to multinational corporations, financial institutions, governments and their agencies, and the banking, securities, and insurance industries.

BNY Mellon is a global investments company dedicated to helping its clients manage and service their financial assets throughout the investment lifecycle. Whether providing financial services for institutions, corporations or individual investors, BNY Mellon delivers informed investment management and investment services in 35 countries and more than 100 markets. As of March 31, 2017, BNY Mellon had $30.6 trillion in assets under custody and/or administration, and $1.7 trillion in assets under management. BNY Mellon can act as a single point of contact for clients looking to create, trade, hold, manage, service, distribute or restructure investments. BNY Mellon is the corporate brand of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (NYSE: BK). Additional information is available on www.bnymellon.com. Follow us on Twitter @BNYMellon or visit our newsroom at www.bnymellon.com/newsroom for the latest company news.