While most of her classmates were soaking up the Southern California sun, Shannon Chen spent almost two weeks of her summer break traversing gassy ponds along the edge of the Arctic Circle.

Outfitted in heavy boots and a waist-high wader — which, in a size small was still too large for her barely 5-foot-tall frame — Chen, 16, collected samples of pond water, measured their chlorophyll and dissolved oxygen levels, and caught tadpoles in the Hudson Bay wetlands near Churchill in Manitoba, Canada — all to help scientists document how climate change affects the Arctic edge.

Chen, a Rancho Palos Verdes resident who will be starting her junior year at Palos Verdes Peninsula High School in a few weeks, was one of six teens and young adults from around the world who traveled to Manitoba from July 21 to Aug. 1 to study the impact of global warming on the Arctic’s edge with Earthwatch, a nonprofit that leads international research expeditions.

“I’m really interested in global warming and trying to get my community to watch what it’s doing to slow the advance of it,” she said. “We observed the pond and tadpole conditions because climate change causes a lot of gases to be produced, and who knows what they do to the water.”

In March, Chen won a spot on the expedition team when she was awarded the Helen and Peter Bing Field Research Award for her entry in the Los Angeles County Science Fair: a miniature unmanned airship she spent seven months building for her science research class.

“It’s probably one of the most sought-after prizes at the science fair and Shannon was very fortunate to have secured it,” said teacher Peter Starodub, who is encouraging her to pursue a patent on the airship. “She’s very academically bright.”

The design also earned Chen a paid summer internship at Northrop Grumman.

Unlike a drone, the mini-airship has the ability to reverse and stay stationary, making it ideal for examining tight, inaccessible spaces. Chen envisions it being used by everyone from firefighters, to power line workers, and, after her recent expedition, outdoor researchers.

The best part of the Arctic trip, Chen said, was getting to experience life as a scientist out in the field, as gritty and smelly as it was. She didn’t even mind taking a fall in a pond and nearly leaving a boot behind.

Advertisement

“It’s part of the experience,” Chen said. “Even though it was pretty nasty, it was actually really fun. The water actually felt nice because of the temperature, but it smelled pretty disgusting because of the greenhouse gases released from underneath.”

The combination of the water, sand and the weight of the wader and boots made moving around a challenge. The team, led by LeeAnn Fishback of the Churchill Northern Studies Centre, was surrounded by armed “bear guards” who would throw firecrackers to scare away wandering polar bears.

When the students weren’t getting dirty dip netting, counting and releasing specimens, they got to explore Churchill, catching sights of beluga whales and the Northern Lights.

Chen, who volunteers at Torrance Memorial Medical Center, wants to bring her experience to Palos Verdes Peninsula High School’s youth service 4-H club, where she is vice president. She will be taking four Advanced Placement classes in the fall and hopes to maintain her weighted 5.0 grade-point average.

She said the trip has already influenced the direction of her future in engineering.

“Before, I just wanted to be a regular engineer,” she said. “But because my mini-airship can have so many applications, I decided I want to be an engineer that helps make devices for researchers to make their research easier.”